📖<amp-next-page> documentation and validation (#26841)
ampproject/amphtml: extensions/amp-next-page/amp-next-page.md

| 1.0     | Support for an infinite number of page recommendations, reduced bundle size, improved API, support for amp-analytics, templated separators and footers, better handling of fixed elements.<br><br>API changes are breaking, please take a look at the migration section for details. |
| 0.1     | Initial experimental implementation. Limited to three recommended documents                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

## Usage

Given a list of pages, `amp-next-page` tries to load them after the current
document, providing an infinite-scroll experience.

Pages should be specified in a JSON config loaded from a remote URL listed in
the element `src`, or inlined as a `script` element child (or both).

```html
<amp-next-page src="https://example.com/next-page-config.json"></amp-next-page>
<!-- Or -->
<amp-next-page>
  <script type="application/json">
    [
      {
        "url": ...,
        "title": ...,
        "image": ...
      },
      ...
    ]
  </script>
</amp-next-page>
```

> 

Reviewer: Move the Substitutions section under this one, as follows: 
```
##### URL substitutions

The amp-next-page src allows all standard URL variable substitutions. See
the [Substitutions Guide](../../spec/amp-var-substitutions.md) for more info.

The example below demonstrates use of the RANDOM substitution:
```
```
<amp-next-page src="https://foo.com/config.json?RANDOM"></amp-next-page>
```
```
The URL may request something like https://foo.com/config.json?0.8390278471201. The RANDOM  randomly generated upon each impression.
```

> If loading the next document is successful it will be appended to the end of

Author: For the first question, no because you can just use both an `src` and an inline configuration in which case the inline configuration will load first then the remote configuration will be queries next (which is the same behavior as `next`)
Second question, depends on whether you have `deep-parsing` on or off, if it's on then it will load the inline articles from subsequent documents, otherwise it will limit itself to the host document's `<amp-next-page>` configuration

the current document as a child of the `amp-next-page` component. Because of this the component must be the last child of the body element, for

> example, at the end of a news article or recipe. If needed, any footer content should be embedded inside the `<amp-next-page>` tag and will be displayed once no more article suggestions are available.

Reviewer: Trying to figure out where `If needed, any footer content should be embedded inside the <amp-next-page> tag and will be displayed once no more article suggestions are available.` information best belongs. Question:

Is this type of footer different from the "Footer recommendation box" as in, it's a "classic" page footer?

Author: ^ That's correct, this is the actual site footer

The component will render an infinite number of articles so long as more unique suggestions are provided (either by the remote server through the `src` attribute or by parsing suggestions from the `<amp-next-page>` inline configurations on subsequently loaded documents through the `deep-parsing` attribute). `<amp-next-page>` automatically handles loading and unloading of documents from memory to retain a smooth experience.

> ### Footer Recommendation Box

Reviewer: In other parts of this document we call it the "recommendation box" - is this different from that? Is it specifically the footer?

Author: No, same component, the attribute was rewritten to be called a `footer` but the old documentation referred to it as recommendation box, I'll disambiguate this

> ### Footer Recommendation Box

Reviewer: Small style nit, would you mind using lowercase on all non-proper nouns in titles that come after the first word. As in:
`### Footer recommendation box`

If the user reaches the end of a page before the next has loaded, or if the

> next page fails to load or if the maximum number of recommendations is reached (as specified by `max-pages`) a box will be displayed with links to the remaining pages. See the Styling section for information on how to customize the default recommendation box.

Reviewer: Update section to:
```
The <amp-next-page> component renders the footer recommendation box if one of the following situations arise:

- The user reaches the end of the page before the next page had loaded.
- The next page fails to load.
- If the max-pages attribute is specified and the number of specified pages is met.

The recommendation box contains links to the remaining pages. It renders the specified image and title used in the JSON configuration.  
```

Reviewer: Question: it says the box specified the remaining pages - how is this possible if the `max-pages` number is met?

Author: Essentially if the configuration has 10 recommended articles but `max-pages` is 6, the recommendation box will have the last four that were not loaded/appended

The footer / recommendation box can also be templated via `amp-mustache` or other templating engines, and will be passed an array of the remaining `pages`, each being a page object containing a `title`, `url` and `image`. Example:

```html
<amp-next-page src="https://example.com/config.json">
  <div footer class="my-custom-footer">
    Here are a few more articles:
    <template type="amp-mustache">
      <div class="footer-content">
        {{#pages}}
        <span class="title">{{title}}</span>
        <span class="url">{{url}}</span>
        <span class="image">{{image}}</span>
        {{/pages}}
      </div>
    </template>
  </div>
</amp-next-page>

> ```

Reviewer: Big question about this section:
What if I do not specify this in `<amp-next-page`? Is this auto done for me? Is this only done so I can style it/customize it?  Is this different than a regular footer? Can I specify both? Whats going on with this `footer` attribute in the `<div>` element? 

Why is `footer / recommendation` box slashed like that? Do I specify something different for the footer than the "regular" recommendation box? Is there a difference?

Author: Hey, I hope the offline discussion clarified some of these questions. For posterity, if you do not specify this then yes, it's done for you in a very similar way (although without the `Here are a few more articles` text and with slightly different styles). You can't specify both since you only get the default footer if `<amp-next-page>` does not find an element with the `footer` attribute inside your component. And yes, this is done so that you can style it and maybe add more text below the title of the article, change the layout, etc which can't be done by simply styling the default one in CSS.

### Separator

A separator is rendered between each loaded document. By default this is
rendered as a full-width hairline. Refer to the Styling section for information on customizing this default behavior.

Alternatively, you can specify a custom separator containing arbitrary HTML
content as a child of the `amp-next-page` component by using the `separator`
attribute. Similar to the footer box, custom separator can be templated via `amp-mustache` or other templating engines, and will be passed the `title`, `url` and `image` of the upcoming article.

```html
<amp-next-page src="https://example.com/config.json">
  <div separator class="my-custom-separator">
    <template type="amp-mustache">
      <div class="my-custom-separator-content">
        <amp-img
          src="{{image}}"
          layout="fixed"
          height="16"
          width="16"
        ></amp-img>
        <span>Next article: {{title}}</span>
      </div>
    </template>
  </div>
</amp-next-page>

> ```

Reviewer: I've suggested updates and moved the entire section under "Styling"

| ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1.0     | Support for an infinite number of page recommendations, reduced bundle size, improved API, support for amp-analytics, templated separators and footers, better handling of fixed elements.<br><br>API changes are breaking, please take a look at the migration section for details. |
| 0.1     | Initial experimental implementation. Limited to three recommended documents                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

## Usage

The `<amp-next-page>` component loads content pages one after another creating an infinite-scroll experience.

### Configure and load pages

> Specify pages in a JSON configuration. Load the JSON configuration from a remote URL with the `src` attribute, or inline it within a `<script>` child element of `<amp-next-page>`. You may choose to both specify a remote URL and inline the JSON object in order to speed up the initial loading of suggestions. In case the `deep-parsing` attribute is present, `<amp-next-page>` will also recursively read suggestions from each loaded document's `<amp-next-page>` element. The component automatically handles loading and unloading the documents from memory for a smooth user experience.

Author: If it has the attribute and the attribute is not set to `false` then it does deep parsing.
If it does not have the attribute then:
- If `src` is specified, it defaults to not having deep parsing
- If `src` is not specified then it default to have deep parsing
Open to suggestions on how to say this in a simpler way

Documents append to the end of the current document as a child of the `<amp-next-page>` element. To prevent shifting page content down, this component must be the last child of the document `<body>`. If needed, any footer content should be embedded inside the `<amp-next-page>` tag and will be displayed once no more article suggestions are available.

> #### Inline Configuration

Reviewer: I don't think this section is introduced correctly, I'm thinking we need to say something like:

```
Inline a JSON configuration in the <amp-next-page> component by placing it inside a child <script> element. 

<amp-next-page>
  <script type="application/json">
    [
      {
        "url": ...,
        "title": ...,
        "image": ...
      },
      ...
    ]
  </script>
</amp-next-page>
```

The inline configuration defines the documents recommended by `amp-next-page` to
the user as an ordered array of page objects in JSON format.

Each page object should have the following key/value pairs:

| Key                | Value                                                                                                                                                            |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `url` (required)   | String URL of the page. Must be on the same origin as the current document. URLs will automatically be rewritten to point to the Google AMP cache when required. |
| `title` (required) | String title of the page, will be used when rendering the recommendation box.                                                                                    |

> | `image` (required) | String URL of the image to display in the recommendation box.                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: Question: Do we have a screenshot of the "recommendation box"? What type of image should it be? Any size dimensions?

Author: This is what the recommendation box looks like so it's a square but also it's stylable so we can't really recommend the size
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/591655/75291131-7d002200-57d6-11ea-9193-455238b80d2a.png)

> 

Reviewer: Move to previous section

To enable for an infinite loading experience without the need for a server-side configuration (remote-loading), `amp-next-page` automatically enables `deep-parsing` (see Attributes), which allows it to parse more suggestions by recursively looking at inline configurations inside `<amp-next-page>` tags on the loaded documents. To disable this behavior, set `deep-parsing` to `false`.

> 

Reviewer: I still have unanswered questions around this section.

The following configuration will recommend two more documents for the user to read.

```json
[
  {
    "image": "https://example.com/image1.jpg",
    "title": "This article shows first",
    "url": "https://example.com/article1.amp.html"
  },
  {
    "image": "https://example.com/image2.jpg",
    "title": "This article shows second",
    "url": "https://example.com/article2.amp.html"
  }
]
```

> #### Load configuration from a remote URL

Reviewer: This content is structured a bit backwards. Start with the on-page configuration:

```
Use the src attribute to point to the remote JSON configuration.

<amp-next-page src="https://example.com/next-page-config.json"></amp-next-page>
```

> For remote configuration, the destination server is required to return a JSON object that has the following structure:

Reviewer: Move this section below the `<amp-next-page>` configuration.

```
Structure remote configurations like the example below. This example configuration returns two recommended documents for the user. It tells <amp-next-page> to query `https://example.com/more-pages` once the user scrolls through both provided documents. 

{
  "pages": [
    {
      "image": "https://example.com/image1.jpg",
      "title": "This article shows first",
      "url": "https://example.com/article1.amp.html"
    },
    {
      "image": "https://example.com/image2.jpg",
      "title": "This article shows second",
      "url": "https://example.com/article2.amp.html"
    }
  ],
  "next": "https://example.com/more-pages"
}

Remote configurations a required and optional JSON key/value pair.
// table here
```

```json
{
  "pages": [
    {
      "image": "https://example.com/image1.jpg",
      "title": "This article shows first",
      "url": "https://example.com/article1.amp.html"
    },
    {
      "image": "https://example.com/image2.jpg",
      "title": "This article shows second",
      "url": "https://example.com/article2.amp.html"
    }
  ],
  "next": "https://example.com/more-pages"
}
```

##### URL substitutions

The `amp-next-page` `src` allows all standard URL variable substitutions. See the [Substitutions Guide](../../spec/amp-var-substitutions.md) for more info. For example:

```html
<amp-next-page src="https://foo.com/config.json?RANDOM"></amp-next-page>
```

This URL may make a request to something like `https://foo.com/config.json?0.8390278471201` where the RANDOM value is randomly generated upon each impression.

### Footer recommendation box

The `<amp-next-page>` component renders the footer recommendation box if one of the following situations arise:

- The user reaches the end of the page before the next page had loaded.
- The next page fails to load.

> - If the `max-pages` attribute is specified and the number of displayed pages is met.

Reviewer: please link to the `max-pages` attribute

> The footer recommendation box contains links to the remaining pages. The default footer recommendation box renders the specified image and title used in the JSON configuration and can be styled as specified in the Styling section.

Reviewer: please link to the styling section.

> The footer recommendation box can also be provided as a custom component inside `<amp-next-page>` as any element that has the `footer`. It can also be templated via `amp-mustache` or other templating engines, in which case it will be passed an array of the remaining `pages`, each being an object with a `title`, `url` and `image`. Example:

Reviewer: I'm sorry but I do not understand any of this.

How is the footer recommendation box provided as a custom component? What in the following code sample signifies that this is the footer recommendation box? 

How does including the custom component inside `<amp-next-page>` effect the default behavior?

```html
<amp-next-page src="https://example.com/config.json">
  <div footer class="my-custom-footer">
    Here are a few more articles:
    <template type="amp-mustache">
      <div class="footer-content">
        {{#pages}}
        <span class="title">{{title}}</span>
        <span class="url">{{url}}</span>
        <span class="image">{{image}}</span>
        {{/pages}}
      </div>
    </template>
  </div>
</amp-next-page>
```

### Separator

A separator is rendered between each loaded document. By default this is

> rendered as a full-width hairline. Refer to the Styling section for information on customizing this default behavior.

Reviewer: Please link to the styling section

Alternatively, you can specify a custom separator containing arbitrary HTML
content as a child of the `amp-next-page` component by using the `separator`
attribute. Similar to the footer box, custom separator can be templated via `amp-mustache` or other templating engines, and will be passed the `title`, `url` and `image` of the upcoming article.

```html
<amp-next-page src="https://example.com/config.json">
  <div separator class="my-custom-separator">
    <template type="amp-mustache">
      <div class="my-custom-separator-content">
        <amp-img
          src="{{image}}"
          layout="fixed"
          height="16"
          width="16"
        ></amp-img>
        <span>Next article: {{title}}</span>
      </div>
    </template>
  </div>
</amp-next-page>

> ```

Reviewer: Most of this section should be updated and moved under styling. I've added a comment that updates this.

```html
<header class="my-header" next-page-hide>
  <h2>Text here.</h2>
</header>
```

In some cases, you may want to preserve the last instance of elements with fixed position and multiple instances. Such elements may include sticky ads, sticky footers, or notification banners. In this case, the `next-page-replace` attribute comes in handy. To preserve the last instance, choose a common identifying value for each of these types of elements. Use that common identifying value as the `next-page-replace` attribute's value on each element instance.

In the following example, as the user scrolls down, the first sticky element will get replaced by the second instance of the type.

_on the first document_

```html
<div class="sticky" next-page-replace="sticky-123">
  <h2>The second sticky will replace me once you scroll past my page</h2>
</div>
```

_on the second document_

```html
<div class="sticky" next-page-replace="sticky-123">
  <h2>I replaced the first instance of my type (sticky-123)</h2>
</div>

> ```

Reviewer: Update section to:
```
Hide elements in loaded pages by using the next-page-hide attribute. Hiding certain elements creates a smooth infinite scroll experience. Such considerations include:

- Avoiding stacking common page elements, such as footers.
- Removing page headers in subsequent pages. 

Elements with the next-page-attribute are set to display: none when loaded as a suggestion from amp-next-page. These elements are visible when the document is loaded as a top-level host. 

You may want to preserve the last instance of elements with fixed position and multiple instances. Such elements may include sticky ads, sticky footers, or notification banners. To preserve the last instance, choose a common identifying value for each of these types of elements,. Use that common identifying value as the next-page-hide attribute's value on each element.  

_on the first document_

<div class="sticky" next-page-replace="sticky-123">
  <h2>The second sticky will replace me once you scroll past my page</h2>
</div>

_on the second document_

<div class="sticky" next-page-replace="sticky-123">
  <h2>I replaced the first instance of my type (sticky-123)</h2>
</div>
```

[/tip]

The `src` attribute is required unless a config has been specified inline.

### `max-pages` (optional)

The maximum number of pages to load and show to the user. The maximum number should be less than the total amount of pages. After meeting the number, <amp-next-page> displays the footer recommendation box. The default is `Infinity`.

### `deep-parsing` (optional)

When specified, the `deep-parsing` attribute enables recursive parsing of inline JSON configurations from subsequently loaded documents. This only works if the loaded documents contain an `<amp-next-page>` tag.

This behavior is the default if the `<amp-next-page>` component only specifies an inline configuration. If the `<amp-next-page>` component loads the configuration remotely this behavior is disabled by default unless `deep-parsing` is set to `true`.

### `xssi-prefix` (optional)

When specified, this attribute enables `amp-next-page` to strip a prefix before parsing remotely hosted JSON. This can be useful for APIs that include [security prefixes](http://patorjk.com/blog/2013/02/05/crafty-tricks-for-avoiding-xssi/) like `)]}` to help prevent cross site scripting attacks.

## Styling

> The `<amp-next-page>` component renders a default recommendation box and separator. You may style the appearance of these two elements as follows:

Reviewer: Please change to:
`The <amp-next-page> component renders a footer recommendation box and separator. You may style these two elements.`

### Styling the default footer recommendation box

The default footer recommendation box (that appears when no more suggestions are available or the suggestions exceed the maximum specified number of pages) can be styled by appling CSS styles to the following classes:

- `.amp-next-page-footer` for the parent container element
- `.amp-next-page-footer-content` for the wrapping element
- `.amp-next-page-footer-article` for an individual article which contains:
- `.amp-next-page-footer-image` for the link image
- `.amp-next-page-footer-text` for the link text

### Styling the default separator

> 

Reviewer: Update section to:

```
Each document loads with a full-width hairline to separate it from the previous page. The default color is gray. Customize it through CSS using the .amp-next-page-separator class. 

.amp-next-page-separator {
     color: red
     width: 5px
}

#### Custom page separator

Specify a custom separator by including an HTML child element of <amp-next-page> with the separator attribute. 

You may template a custom separator with the upcoming article via amp-mustache or other templating engine. Pass it the title, url and image of the upcoming article. 

<amp-next-page src="https://example.com/config.json">
  <div separator class="my-custom-separator">
    <template type="amp-mustache">
      <div class="my-custom-separator-content">
        <amp-img
          src="{{image}}"
          layout="fixed"
          height="16"
          width="16"
        ></amp-img>
        <span>Next article: {{title}}</span>
      </div>
    </template>
  </div>
</amp-next-page>
```

The default separator (shown between article recommendations) is a simple gray hairline, although this can be customized through CSS by applying styles to the `.amp-next-page-separator` class, templating the separator allows for more flexibility in styling and allows the integration of the title, image and URL of the upcoming article into the separator's appearance.

> 

Reviewer: remove this.

Author: I think this is needed, again to differentiate between the default and custom implementations of a separator

```html
<amp-next-page src="https://example.com/config.json">
  <div footer class="my-custom-footer">
    Here are a few more articles:
    <template type="amp-mustache">
      <div class="footer-content">
        {{#pages}}
        <span class="title">{{title}}</span>
        <span class="url">{{url}}</span>
        <span class="image">{{image}}</span>
        {{/pages}}
      </div>
    </template>
  </div>
</amp-next-page>
```

### Separator

A separator is rendered between each loaded document. By default this is
rendered as a full-width horizontal rule. Refer to the [Styling](https://amp.dev/documentation/components/amp-next-page/#styling) section for information on customizing this default behavior.

Alternatively, you can specify a custom separator containing arbitrary HTML
content as a child of the `amp-next-page` component by using the `separator`

> attribute. Similar to the footer box, custom separator can be templated via `amp-mustache` or other templating engines, and will be passed the `title`, `url` and `image` of the upcoming article.

Reviewer: Also cannot suggestion an inline edit for this one. Please update this section with the header:
```
#### Customized separator 

Customize the separator by defining an element with the `separator` attribute inside the `<amp-next-page>` component. Suggest remaining pages by templating the custom separator with `amp-mustache` or another templating engine. Then pass it the array of documents by including the `title`, `url`, and `image` in the templated custom solution. 
```

```html
<amp-next-page src="https://example.com/config.json">
  <div separator class="my-custom-separator">
    <template type="amp-mustache">
      <div class="my-custom-separator-content">
        <amp-img
          src="{{image}}"
          layout="fixed"
          height="16"
          width="16"
        ></amp-img>
        <span>Next article: {{title}}</span>
      </div>
    </template>
  </div>
</amp-next-page>
```

> ### Element hiding/replacing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Manage UI elements
```

Author: See my previous comment on this, the section is about hiding general elements (like sidebar, footers, etc.) when embedded in amp-next-page. "UI elements" makes it feel like it's talking about `amp-next-page`'s own UI elements (e.g. separators, etc) which is a bit misleading.

Reviewer: That's a fair point. However, `Element hiding/replacing` doesn't sound any less like we're talking about amp-next-page elements. The title needs to suggest why developers should read this section. Maybe something like:
`Managing infinite scrolling UI`
or
`Managing page elements`
or
`Preventing page element duplication` 
or
`Create a good infinite scroll experience`

WDYT?

Author: `Preventing page element duplication` sounds good!

Reviewer: +1 SGTM!

In the following example, as the user scrolls down, the first sticky element will get replaced by the second instance of the type.

_on the first document_

```html
<div class="sticky" next-page-replace="sticky-123">
  <h2>The second sticky will replace me once you scroll past my page</h2>
</div>
```

_on the second document_

```html
<div class="sticky" next-page-replace="sticky-123">
  <h2>I replaced the first instance of my type (sticky-123)</h2>
</div>
```

### Migrating from 0.1

The experimental `0.1` version of `amp-next-page` had a similar but more restricted API. Version `1.0` allows for an infinite number of suggestions and has advanced features such as templated separators and footers. To make use of these features, follow these instructions:

1. Update your `<script custom-element>` tag to link to the `1.0` bundle of `amp-next-page`
2. Make sure that `amp-next-page` is the last child of the body element, move any footers or other components that used to follow `<amp-next-page>` inside the `<amp-next-page>` tag.

> 3. If you were using an inline configuration, the JSON config is now an `array` of pages instead of an `object` with a `pages` entry. Additionally, the `ampUrl` key of each page entry was renamed to `url`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If you were using an inline configuration, the JSON config is now an `array` of pages instead of an `object` with a `pages` entry. Additionally, you must rename the `ampUrl` key of each page to `url`. 

```

       [
         {
           "image": "https://example.com/image1.jpg",
           "title": "This article shows first",
           // `ampUrl` was renamed to `url`
           "url": "https://example.com/article1.amp.html"
         }
       ]
       // Instead of `hideSelectors`, use the `next-page-hide` attribute
     </script>
   </amp-next-page>
   ```

## Attributes

### `src`

The `src` attribute points to the remote endpoint that returns `amp-next-page`'s JSON configuration. This must be A CORS HTTP service. The URL's protocol must be HTTPS.

[tip type="important"]
Your endpoint must implement the requirements specified in the [CORS Requests in AMP](https://amp.dev/documentation/guides-and-tutorials/learn/amp-caches-and-cors/amp-cors-requests) spec.
[/tip]

The `src` attribute is a required attribute, unless the `<amp-next-page>` component contains an inline JSON configuration.

### `max-pages` (optional)

The maximum number of pages to load and show to the user. The maximum number should be less than the total amount of pages. After meeting the number, <amp-next-page> displays the footer recommendation box. The default is `Infinity`.

### `deep-parsing` (optional)

> When specified, the `deep-parsing` attribute enables recursive parsing of inline JSON configurations from subsequently loaded documents. This only works if the loaded documents contain an `<amp-next-page>` tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `deep-parsing` attribute enables recursive parsing of subsequently loaded documents's `<amp-next-page>` JSON configurations. 
```

> This behavior is the default if the `<amp-next-page>` component only specifies an inline configuration. If the `<amp-next-page>` component loads the configuration remotely this behavior is disabled by default unless `deep-parsing` is set to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the default behavior when `<amp-next-page>` inlines the JSON configuration. You may disable it by setting `deep-parsing=false`.

This is not the default behavior when `<amp-next-page>` points to a remote JSON configuration. You must enable it by setting `deep-parsing=true`.
```

### `xssi-prefix` (optional)

When specified, this attribute enables `amp-next-page` to strip a prefix before parsing remotely hosted JSON. This can be useful for APIs that include [security prefixes](http://patorjk.com/blog/2013/02/05/crafty-tricks-for-avoiding-xssi/) like `)]}` to help prevent cross site scripting attacks.

## Styling

The `<amp-next-page>` component renders a default recommendation box and separator. You may style the appearance of these two elements as follows:

### Style the default footer recommendation box

You may add custom CSS styles to the default footer recommendation box. It exposes the following classes:

- `.amp-next-page-footer` for the parent container element
- `.amp-next-page-footer-content` for the wrapping element
- `.amp-next-page-footer-article` for an individual article which contains:
- `.amp-next-page-footer-image` for the link image
- `.amp-next-page-footer-text` for the link text

### Style the default page separator

> The default separator (shown between article recommendations) is a simple gray horizontal rule, although this can be customized through CSS by applying styles to the `.amp-next-page-separator` class, templating the separator allows for more flexibility in styling and allows the integration of the title, image and URL of the upcoming article into the separator's appearance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each document loads with a full-width hairline to separate it from the previous page. The default color is gray. Customize it through CSS using the `.amp-next-page-separator` class. 

```css
.amp-next-page-separator {
     color: red
     width: 5px
}
```
```

Author: Hmm this makes it look like the only thing you can customize here is color, I changed the wording a bit

Reviewer: Perfect, thank you!

| ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1.0     | Support for an infinite number of page recommendations, reduced bundle size, improved API, support for amp-analytics, templated separators and footers, better handling of fixed elements.<br><br>API changes are breaking, please take a look at the [migration section](https://amp.dev/documentation/components/amp-next-page/#migrating-from-0.1) for details. |
| 0.1     | Initial experimental implementation. Limited to three recommended documents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

## Usage

> The `<amp-next-page>` component loads content pages one after another creating an infinite-scroll experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<amp-next-page>` component loads content pages one after another creating an infinite scroll experience.
```

```html
<amp-next-page src="https://example.com/config.json">
  <div footer class="my-custom-footer">
    Here are a few more articles:
    <template type="amp-mustache">
      <div class="footer-content">
        {{#pages}}
        <span class="title">{{title}}</span>
        <span class="url">{{url}}</span>
        <span class="image">{{image}}</span>
        {{/pages}}
      </div>
    </template>
  </div>
</amp-next-page>
```

### Separator

The `<amp-next-page>` component renders a separator between each document. The default separator is a full-width grey line. Refer to the [Styling](https://amp.dev/documentation/components/amp-next-page/#styling) section to change the default style.

#### Custom separator

Customize the separator by defining an element with the `separator` attribute inside the `<amp-next-page>` component. Suggest remaining pages by templating the custom separator with `amp-mustache` or another templating engine. Then pass it the array of documents by including the `title`, `url`, and `image` in the templated custom solution.

> Alternatively, it is possible to create a custom separator by defining an element with the `separator` attribute inside the `<amp-next-page>` component. Display information about the next article by templating the custom separator with `amp-mustache` or another templating engine. Whem using templates, the `title`, `url` and `image` of the upcoming article are passed to the template.

Reviewer: We got a double paragraph here :P

</div>
```

### Inline Configuration

The inline configuration defines the documents recommended by `amp-next-page` to
the user as an ordered array of page objects in JSON format.

Each page object should have the following format:

| Key                | Value                                                                                                                                                            |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `url` (required)   | String URL of the page. Must be on the same origin as the current document. URLs will automatically be rewritten to point to the Google AMP cache when required. |
| `title` (required) | String title of the page, will be used when rendering the recommendation box                                                                                     |
| `image` (required) | String URL of the image to display in the recommendation box                                                                                                     |

> 

Reviewer: I've suggested a move for this section and migrated the information out of tables. (I don't really like how tables look on amp.dev, especially in mobile)

To enable for an infinite loading experience without the need for a server-side configuration (remote-loading), `amp-next-page` automatically enables `deep-parsing` (see Attributes), which allows it to parse more suggestions by recursively looking at inline configurations inside `<amp-next-page>` tags on the loaded documents. To disable this behavior, set `deep-parsing` to `false`.

> 

Reviewer: I'm trying to figure out where the information in this section best belongs, but I'm a little confused.
- We say "`amp-next-page` automatically enables `deep-parsing`" but `deep-parsing` is an optional attribute? What does this mean? 
- What is the default behavior (no optional attributes)? Do we show the "recommendation box" or is one article loaded after another?
- What happens if I only have one article in my configuration when the  "recommendation box" is shown? Will it only show that one recommendation or will it just auto load that page?

Reviewer: @wassgha I still don't think these questions are answered.

| `pages` (required) | Array of pages, exactly the same format as the in the inline configration section above.                                                                             |
| `next` (optional)  | Optional string url pointing to the next remote to query for more pages (should abide by the same rules as the initial URL, namely implement the CORS requirements.) |

#### Example Remote Configuration

The following configuration returned from the server will recommend two more documents for the user to read and tell `amp-next-page` to query `https://example.com/more-pages` when the user finishes reading the provided recommendations.

```json
{
  "pages": [
    {
      "image": "https://example.com/image1.jpg",
      "title": "This article shows first",
      "url": "https://example.com/article1.amp.html"
    },
    {
      "image": "https://example.com/image2.jpg",
      "title": "This article shows second",
      "url": "https://example.com/article2.amp.html"
    }
  ],
  "next": "https://example.com/more-pages"
}
```

> ## Attributes

Reviewer: I see this section doesn't include the `separator` attribute or `next-page-hide` attribute. Any particular reason for this?

Author: Hmm for `separator` it's an attribute on the child of `<amp-next-page>` and not on `<amp-next-page>` itself, while `next-page-hide` and `next-page-replace` are attributes on any AMP element that the user wants to hide so I don't think they fit here.

### `src`

The URL of the remote endpoint that returns the JSON that will be used to
configure this `amp-next-page` component. This must be a CORS HTTP service.
The URL's protocol must be HTTPS.

{% call callout('Important', type='caution') %} Your endpoint must implement
the requirements specified in the CORS Requests in AMP spec. {% endcall %}

The `src` attribute is required unless a config has been specified inline.

### `max-pages` (optional)

The maximum number of pages to load and show to the user. When this number is exceeded, the footer box will be shown with links to the remaining articles. The default is `Infinity`.

> ### `deep-parsing` (optional)

Reviewer: Does this attribute take a value? I'm thinking it must be `true` or `false`?

Author: Doesn't have to but can, updated

> When specified, this attribute allows `amp-next-page` to recursively parse inline configuration from the loaded documents (if the documents themselves contain an `<amp-next-page>` tag). This behavior is enabled by default when using an inline configuration and disabled by default when using a remote configuration.

Reviewer: Update to:
```
The deep-parsing attribute enables recursive parsing of inline JSON configurations from loaded documents. This only works if the loaded documents contain an <amp-next-page> tag. 

This behavior is the default if the <amp-next-page> component contains an inline configuration. If the <amp-next-page> component loads the configuration remotely this behavior is disabled. 
```

### `xssi-prefix` (optional)

> When specified, this attribute allows `amp-next-page` to strip a prefix from the fetched JSON before parsing. This can be useful for APIs that include [security prefixes](http://patorjk.com/blog/2013/02/05/crafty-tricks-for-avoiding-xssi/) like `)]}` to help prevent cross site scripting attacks.

Reviewer: Suggestion:
```
The xssi-prefix attribute enables <amp-next-page> to strip a prefix before parsing remotely hosted JSON.  This can be useful for APIs that include [security prefixes](http://patorjk.com/blog/2013/02/05/crafty-tricks-for-avoiding-xssi/) like `)]}` to help prevent cross site scripting attacks.
```

## Styling

> Several CSS classes are exposed to provide flexibility in customizing the appearance of `<amp-next-page>` as follows:

Reviewer: Update to:
```
The <amp-next-page> component renders a recommendation box and separator. You may style these two elements. 
```

> ### Styling the default footer

Reviewer: Update to:
```
### Style footer recommendation box
```

> The default footer / recommendation box (that appears when no more suggestions are available or the suggestions exceed the maximum specified number of pages) can be styled by appling CSS styles to the following classes:

Reviewer: Update to:
```
You may add custom CSS styles to the footer recommendation box. The footer recommendation box exposes the following classes: 
```

Author: Updated but kept the `default` wording

- `.amp-next-page-footer` for the parent container element
- `.amp-next-page-footer-content` for the wrapping element
- `.amp-next-page-footer-article` for an individual article which contains:
- `.amp-next-page-footer-image` for the link image
- `.amp-next-page-footer-text` for the link text

> ### Styling the default separator

Reviewer: Update to:
`### Page separator`

Author: Updated but would still like to keep `default` to differentiate it from the user's own implementation of a separator element

The default separator (shown between article recommendations) is a simple gray hairline, although this can be customized through CSS by applying styles to the `.amp-next-page-separator` class, templating the separator allows for more flexibility in styling and allows the integration of the title, image and URL of the upcoming article into the separator's appearance.

> 

Reviewer: Update section to:
```

## Analytics

> Full support for analytics is included on the host page as well as subsequently loaded articles. It is recommended to simply use the same analytics triggers used on standalone articles (including scroll-bound triggers). However, a single custom analytics event is also provided on the host page to indicate transitioning between pages. This event can be tracked in the [amp-analytics](https://amp.dev/documentation/components/amp-analytics) config:

Reviewer: Update the first two sentences to:
```
The <amp-next-page> component supports analytics on the hosted page and subsequently loaded articles. We recommend using the same analytics triggers used on standalone articles. This recommendation includes scroll-bound triggers. 
```

Reviewer: @wassgha This update has not ben made.

Author: Fixed

> Full support for analytics is included on the host page as well as subsequently loaded articles. It is recommended to simply use the same analytics triggers used on standalone articles (including scroll-bound triggers). However, a single custom analytics event is also provided on the host page to indicate transitioning between pages. This event can be tracked in the [amp-analytics](https://amp.dev/documentation/components/amp-analytics) config:

Reviewer: I have some confusion around "However, a single custom analytics event is also provided on the host page to indicate transitioning between pages. This event can be tracked in the amp-analytics config:"

- What is this custom analytics event?
- Does it track which page? 

These answers may effect my above rewrite recommendation

Reviewer: @wassgha still open questions. ^

Author: Fixed

> | Event                  | Fired when                                                      |

Reviewer: Don't move these out of the table (for now). (I think) This is a good table.

| ---------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `amp-next-page-scroll` | The user scrolls to a new page                                  |

> | `amp-next-page-click`  | The user click on an article from the footer/recommendation box |

Reviewer: Add a period at the end of each sentence.

Reviewer: And remove the `/` from `footer/recommendation `

> Both of the `triggers` provide the variables `url` and `title` referring to the page of interest. They can be used as follows:

Reviewer: Can we use phrasing more specific than  "page of interest"? Maybe:
`Both <amp-next-page> specific triggers provide the variables url and title. The title and url refer to the scrolled-to page or the clicked article.` 

Update last sentence to:
```
The following code sample demonstrates their use: 
```

`https://foo.com/config.json?0.8390278471201` where the RANDOM value is
randomly generated upon each impression.

## Accessibility

> The default footer and default separator both present a generic, non-localized `aria-label` describing their content. If this label is not satisfactory, please consider using a custom footer/separator element to improve accessibility.

Reviewer: Thanks so much for adding this section :)

Update `footer/separator` to `footer or separator`

Reviewer: @wassgha this update has not been made.
